docs/TUTORIAL_17_GLM_EXAMPLE_TITLE_GENERATION.md, before:

# GLM example：title generation

## background
The title generation task needs to input a piece of text, and the model outputs the corresponding title according to the input text.
![](./img/bert_title_generation_model.png)

## Result show
#### Input
```
"本文总结了十个可穿戴产品的设计原则而这些原则同样也是笔者认为是这个行业最吸引人的地方1为人们解决重复性问题2从人开始而不是从机器开始3要引起注意但不要刻意4提升用户能力而不是取代人",
"2007年乔布斯向人们展示iPhone并宣称它将会改变世界还有人认为他在夸大其词然而在8年后以iPhone为代表的触屏智能手机已经席卷全球各个角落未来智能手机将会成为真正的个人电脑为人类发展做出更大的贡献",
"雅虎发布2014年第四季度财报并推出了免税方式剥离其持有的阿里巴巴集团15％股权的计划打算将这一价值约400亿美元的宝贵投资分配给股东截止发稿前雅虎股价上涨了大约7％至5145美元"
```

#### Output
```
可 穿 戴 产 品 设 计 原 则 十 大 原 则
乔 布 斯 宣 布 iphone 8 年 后 将 成 为 个 人 电 脑
雅 虎 拟 剥 离 阿 里 巴 巴 15 ％ 股 权
```

## Model Train（train.py）

Modify the training data path src_dir, tgt_dir, and model path model_dir before running. Run this command at the command line:
```commandline
cd ./examples/glm_title_generation
python ./train.py
```

### 1.Load data
Sample data is at /examples/bert_title_generation/data/

1）Define the load function
```python
def read_file():
    src = []
    tgt = []

    ## read data file to load src and tgt, for example:
    ## src = ["article_1", "article_2", "article_3" ......]
    ## tgt = ["title_1", "title_2", "title_3" ......]
    ## no matter what data you use, you need to construct the right src and tgt.
    with open(src_dir, 'r', encoding='utf-8') as f:
        lines = f.readlines()
        for line in lines:
            src.append(line.strip('\n').lower())

    with open(tgt_dir, 'r', encoding='utf-8') as f:
        lines = f.readlines()
        for line in lines:
            tgt.append(line.strip('\n').lower())
    return src,tgt
```

2）Define the data loading process
```python
class GLMSeq2seqDataset(Dataset):

    def __init__(self, sents_src, sents_tgt):
        super(GLMSeq2seqDataset, self).__init__()
        self.sents_src = sents_src
        self.sents_tgt = sents_tgt

    def __getitem__(self, i):
        source_text = self.sents_src[i]
        target_text = self.sents_tgt[i]
        data = tokenizer.encode_plus(source_text, target_text=target_text)
        return data

    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.sents_src)
```

3) Define the batch function (collate_fn) in the data iterator (DataLoader) to pad a batch of data into a uniform size
```python
class GLMSeq2seqDynamicCollateFN():
    def __init__(self, pad_id):
        self.pad_id = pad_id

    def pad_token(self, tokens, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(tokens)
        tokens += [self.pad_id]*pad_len
        return tokens

    def pad_position_ids(self, position_ids, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(position_ids[0])
        position_ids[0] += [len(position_ids[0])+x for x in range(pad_len)]
        position_ids[1] += [1] * pad_len
        return position_ids

    def pad_loss_mask(self, loss_mask, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(loss_mask)
        loss_mask += [0] * pad_len
        return loss_mask

    def __call__(self, batch):
        input_ids = [data["input_ids"] for data in batch]
        target_ids = [data["target_ids"] for data in batch]
        position_ids = [data["position_ids"] for data in batch]
        attention_mask = [data['attention_mask'] for data in batch]
        loss_mask = [data['loss_mask'] for data in batch]

        max_length = max([len(t) for t in input_ids])
        for i in range(len(input_ids)):
            input_ids[i] = self.pad_token(input_ids[i], max_length)
            target_ids[i] = self.pad_token(target_ids[i], max_length)
            position_ids[i] = self.pad_position_ids(position_ids[i], max_length)
            loss_mask[i] = self.pad_loss_mask(loss_mask[i], max_length)
        return {
            'input_ids': torch.LongTensor(input_ids),
            'target_ids': torch.LongTensor(target_ids),
            'position_ids': torch.LongTensor(position_ids),
            'attention_mask': torch.LongTensor(attention_mask),
            'loss_mask': torch.LongTensor(loss_mask)
        }
```
4）Get the training data
```python
train_src, train_tgt = read_file()
print('-----------train data length:', len(train_src))
my_collate_fn = GLMSeq2seqDynamicCollateFN(pad_id=tokenizer.get_command('pad').Id)
train_dataset = GLMSeq2seqDataset(train_src,
                                   train_tgt)
```
### 2.Load model and tokenizer

```python
from flagai.auto_model.auto_loader import AutoLoader

# the model dir, which contains the 1.config.json, 2.pytorch_model.bin, 3.vocab.txt,
# or we will download these files from the model hub to this dir.
model_dir = "./state_dict/glm/"
# Autoloader can build the model and tokenizer automatically.
# 'seq2seq' is the task_name.
AutoLoader("seq2seq",model_name="GLM-large-ch",model_dir=model_dir)
model = auto_loader.get_model()
tokenizer = auto_loader.get_tokenizer()
```

### 3. Training

Instantiate the Trainer, and set the training parameters.

```python
import torch.cuda
from flagai.trainer import Trainer

device = torch.device("cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu")
trainer = Trainer(
    env_type="pytorch",
    experiment_name="roberta_seq2seq",
    batch_size=1,
    gradient_accumulation_steps=1,
    lr=2e-4,
    weight_decay=1e-3,
    epochs=10,
    log_interval=10,
    eval_interval=10000,
    load_dir=None,
    pytorch_device=device,
    save_dir="checkpoints",
    save_epoch=1,
    num_checkpoints=1,

)
```
Enter the model, data, and batch functions into the trainer to start training:
```python
trainer.train(model,
              train_dataset=train_dataset,
              collate_fn=my_collate_fn)
```

## Generation（generate.py）
Modify the model configuration path model_dir and the trained model path model_save_path before running. Run this command at the command line:

```commandline
cd ./examples/glm_title_generation
python ./generate.py
```
You can choose between random sampling based on probability screening (random sample) or beam search (beamsearch) two generation methods:
```python
print(predictor.predict_generate_randomsample(text,out_max_length=66, top_k=10, top_p=.1,
                                      repetition_penalty=4.0, temperature=1.2))
print(predictor.predict_generate_beamsearch(text, out_max_length=66, beam_size=10))
```

Commit message:

glm-title-generation docs
Signed-off-by: zhaohu xing <920232796@qq.com>

docs/TUTORIAL_17_GLM_EXAMPLE_TITLE_GENERATION.md, after:

# GLM example：title generation

## Background
The title generation task needs to input a piece of text, and the model outputs the corresponding title according to the input text.
![](./img/bert_title_generation_model.png)

Note that for the generality of the generation method, we currently use the GLM model for the title generation task through UniLM (https://github.com/microsoft/unilm/tree/master/unilm) , not the blank filling used in the original paper (https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.10360.pdf).

We will test GLM's unique blank filling generation method later, and will show and compare the generation results of the two generation methods.

## Result show
#### Input
```
"本文总结了十个可穿戴产品的设计原则而这些原则同样也是笔者认为是这个行业最吸引人的地方1为人们解决重复性问题2从人开始而不是从机器开始3要引起注意但不要刻意4提升用户能力而不是取代人",
"2007年乔布斯向人们展示iPhone并宣称它将会改变世界还有人认为他在夸大其词然而在8年后以iPhone为代表的触屏智能手机已经席卷全球各个角落未来智能手机将会成为真正的个人电脑为人类发展做出更大的贡献",
"雅虎发布2014年第四季度财报并推出了免税方式剥离其持有的阿里巴巴集团15％股权的计划打算将这一价值约400亿美元的宝贵投资分配给股东截止发稿前雅虎股价上涨了大约7％至5145美元"
```

#### Output
```
可 穿 戴 产 品 设 计 原 则 十 大 原 则
乔 布 斯 宣 布 iphone 8 年 后 将 成 为 个 人 电 脑
雅 虎 拟 剥 离 阿 里 巴 巴 15 ％ 股 权
```

## Model Train（train.py）

Modify the training data path src_dir, tgt_dir, and model path model_dir before running. Run this command at the command line:
```commandline
cd ./examples/glm_title_generation
python ./train.py
```

### 1.Load data
Sample data is at /examples/bert_title_generation/data/

1）Define the load function
```python
def read_file():
    src = []
    tgt = []

    ## read data file to load src and tgt, for example:
    ## src = ["article_1", "article_2", "article_3" ......]
    ## tgt = ["title_1", "title_2", "title_3" ......]
    ## no matter what data you use, you need to construct the right src and tgt.
    with open(src_dir, 'r', encoding='utf-8') as f:
        lines = f.readlines()
        for line in lines:
            src.append(line.strip('\n').lower())

    with open(tgt_dir, 'r', encoding='utf-8') as f:
        lines = f.readlines()
        for line in lines:
            tgt.append(line.strip('\n').lower())
    return src,tgt
```

2）Define the data loading process
```python
class GLMSeq2seqDataset(Dataset):

    def __init__(self, sents_src, sents_tgt):
        super(GLMSeq2seqDataset, self).__init__()
        self.sents_src = sents_src
        self.sents_tgt = sents_tgt

    def __getitem__(self, i):
        source_text = self.sents_src[i]
        target_text = self.sents_tgt[i]
        data = tokenizer.encode_plus(source_text, target_text=target_text)
        return data

    def __len__(self):
        return len(self.sents_src)
```

3) Define the batch function (collate_fn) in the data iterator (DataLoader) to pad a batch of data into a uniform size
```python
class GLMSeq2seqDynamicCollateFN():
    def __init__(self, pad_id):
        self.pad_id = pad_id

    def pad_token(self, tokens, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(tokens)
        tokens += [self.pad_id]*pad_len
        return tokens

    def pad_position_ids(self, position_ids, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(position_ids[0])
        position_ids[0] += [len(position_ids[0])+x for x in range(pad_len)]
        position_ids[1] += [1] * pad_len
        return position_ids

    def pad_loss_mask(self, loss_mask, max_length):
        pad_len = max_length-len(loss_mask)
        loss_mask += [0] * pad_len
        return loss_mask

    def __call__(self, batch):
        input_ids = [data["input_ids"] for data in batch]
        target_ids = [data["target_ids"] for data in batch]
        position_ids = [data["position_ids"] for data in batch]
        attention_mask = [data['attention_mask'] for data in batch]
        loss_mask = [data['loss_mask'] for data in batch]

        max_length = max([len(t) for t in input_ids])
        for i in range(len(input_ids)):
            input_ids[i] = self.pad_token(input_ids[i], max_length)
            target_ids[i] = self.pad_token(target_ids[i], max_length)
            position_ids[i] = self.pad_position_ids(position_ids[i], max_length)
            loss_mask[i] = self.pad_loss_mask(loss_mask[i], max_length)
        return {
            'input_ids': torch.LongTensor(input_ids),
            'target_ids': torch.LongTensor(target_ids),
            'position_ids': torch.LongTensor(position_ids),
            'attention_mask': torch.LongTensor(attention_mask),
            'loss_mask': torch.LongTensor(loss_mask)
        }
```
4）Get the training data
```python
train_src, train_tgt = read_file()
print('-----------train data length:', len(train_src))
my_collate_fn = GLMSeq2seqDynamicCollateFN(pad_id=tokenizer.get_command('pad').Id)
train_dataset = GLMSeq2seqDataset(train_src,
                                   train_tgt)
```
### 2.Load model and tokenizer

```python
from flagai.auto_model.auto_loader import AutoLoader

# the model dir, which contains the 1.config.json, 2.pytorch_model.bin, 3.vocab.txt,
# or we will download these files from the model hub to this dir.
model_dir = "./state_dict/glm/"
# Autoloader can build the model and tokenizer automatically.
# 'seq2seq' is the task_name.
AutoLoader("seq2seq",model_name="GLM-large-ch",model_dir=model_dir)
model = auto_loader.get_model()
tokenizer = auto_loader.get_tokenizer()
```

### 3. Training

Instantiate the Trainer, and set the training parameters.

```python
import torch.cuda
from flagai.trainer import Trainer

device = torch.device("cuda" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "cpu")
trainer = Trainer(
    env_type="pytorch",
    experiment_name="roberta_seq2seq",
    batch_size=1,
    gradient_accumulation_steps=1,
    lr=2e-4,
    weight_decay=1e-3,
    epochs=10,
    log_interval=10,
    eval_interval=10000,
    load_dir=None,
    pytorch_device=device,
    save_dir="checkpoints",
    save_epoch=1,
    num_checkpoints=1,

)
```
Enter the model, data, and batch functions into the trainer to start training:
```python
trainer.train(model,
              train_dataset=train_dataset,
              collate_fn=my_collate_fn)
```

## Generation（generate.py）
Modify the model configuration path model_dir and the trained model path model_save_path before running. Run this command at the command line:

```commandline
cd ./examples/glm_title_generation
python ./generate.py
```
You can choose between random sampling based on probability screening (random sample) or beam search (beamsearch) two generation methods:
```python
print(predictor.predict_generate_randomsample(text,out_max_length=66, top_k=10, top_p=.1,
                                      repetition_penalty=4.0, temperature=1.2))
print(predictor.predict_generate_beamsearch(text, out_max_length=66, beam_size=10))
```
